# Streaming Data

This site provides documentation for this project.
Use the navigation to explore module-specific materials.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get these projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- **Project Instructions** - instructions specific to this module
- **Your Files** - how to copy from examples and make them yours
- **Glossary** - project terms and concepts
- **API** - autogenerated look at the code interface

## Custom Project

### Dataset

The Kafka producer uses the sales.csv dataset in the data folder.

The dataset contains records of purchases, with each record containing the info:

- order_id
- datetime
- region_id
- currency_code
- product_id
- unit_price
- quantity
- is_online
- customer_id
- is_new_customer
- device_type
- payment_method
- referral_source
- discount_code
- customer_note

For this project, the original sales dataset was used.
Nothing was modified.

### Kafka Messages

The script kafka_producer_case.py in the src/streaming folder
was used to send messages.

Each message sent is a row from the sales dataset.

The Kafka topic used was streaming-06-scenarios-miller.

The region_id field was used as the message key.

The message fields were not altered by the producer.

The consumer adds derived fields to each message.

### Consumer Processing

The consumer reads one message at a time from Kafka.  In this case,
a total of fifteen messages were read.

Each message is logged as it is read and validated by the consumer.

After validation, new fields are calculated and running statistics of each
message is kept and logged.

Most original message fields are kept along with the newly added derived fields
and are written to a CSV and DuckDB file.

A live chart was also updated through the consumer as each message was processed.

For this project, the following fields were processed:

- quantity
- unit_price
- region_id
- payment_method

Each derived field came from these four original fields.

### Experiments

In Phase 4, the Kafka topic was changed to streaming-06-scenarios-miller, the number of
messages was increased to ten, and the live chart was updated to a bar chart that shows
total sales by payment method.

In Phase 5, the number of messages was increased to fifteen and a new derived field was added.

The field 'payment_channel' was added so that the output CSV file would have the fields
total, is_new_customer, and payment_channel next to each other.

This way you'd be able to see any relationships between new or not new customers that deal with
the amount they spend and how they chose to pay.  The payment channels are wallet (digital wallet
like apple pay), direct (credit/debit cards or cash), and prepaid (gift cards).

### Results

The producer successfully ran and sent all fifteen messages.

The consumer also successfully ran and processed those messages by validating them, updating the
live chart and adding the derived fields.

The output files as well as the chart can be found in the data\output folder.

As for the running statistics, those can be found in the project's logs.

### Interpretation

Compared to the original example, this updated version processes 5x more messages, adds a new derived
field, and uses a bar chart instead of a line chart.

As noted under Experiments, by having total, is_new_customer, and payment_channel next to each other
in the output file, I hope that this can possibly give way to a relationship between the three.
As of right now, there are no new customers, so only a relationship between total and payment_channel
would be viable.

The consumer is, however, ready for real data where there are new customers.  I'd still say that
this project was a success.

A business would find the visuals of the live chart very helpful at seeing how customers are choosing
to pay.  This would allow them to make the most popular payment type easier for people to use, or look
at the less popular methods and try to understand why they are less popular.

Similarly, businesses would also be able to find any possible relationships from the output CSV
file, thanks to the addition of the derived fields.

This project helped me understand how an entire streaming pipeline should work.  Putting everything
into one project was necessary for me to fully grasp how they work.
